.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2022 Oracle and/or its affiliates.
.\"
.\" ktls-utils is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; version 2.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA
.\" 02110-1301, USA.
.\"
.\" tlshd(8)
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2021 Oracle and/or its affiliates.
.TH tlshd 8 "20 Dec 2021"
.SH NAME
tlshd \- TLS handshake for kernel TLS sockets
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "/usr/sbin/tlshd [" options "]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B tlshd
program implements a user agent that services TLS handshake requests
on behalf of kernel TLS consumers.
Using the
.BR accept (2)
system call, it materializes kernel socket endpoints in user space
in order to perform TLS handshakes using a TLS library.
After each handshake completes,
.B tlshd
plants TLS session metadata into the kernel socket to enable
the use of kTLS to secure subsequent communication on that socket.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d " or " \-\-debug
When specified this option enables verbose debugging.
By default, operation is quiet.
.TP
.B \-h " or " \-\-help
When specified
.B tlshd
displays a help message then exits immediately.
.TP
.B \-l " or " \-\-libdebug
When specified this option sets the debug level for the TLS library.
By default, library debugging messages are disabled.
.TP
.B \-s " or " \-\-stderr
When specified this option forces messages to go to both
.I stderr
and the system log.
By default, messages go only to the system log.
.TP
.B \-v " or " \-\-version
When specified
.B tlshd
displays build version information then exits immediately.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
The GnuTLS library provides certain capabilities that can be enabled
by setting environment variables before
.B tlshd
is started.
More information about these variables is available
in GnuTLS library documentation.
.TP
.B SSLKEYLOGFILE
When set, this variable specifies the pathname of a file
to which the GnuTLS library appends
negotiated session keys in the NSS Key Log format.
The NSS Key Log format can be read by wireshark,
enabling decryption of recorded sessions.
.TP
.B GNUTLS_FORCE_FIPS_MODE
When set to `1', this variable forces the TLS library into FIPS mode
if FIPS140-2 support is available.
.SH NOTES
This software is a prototype.
It's purpose is for demonstration and as a proof-of-concept.
USE THIS SOFTWARE AT YOUR OWN RISK.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ssl (7)
.SH AUTHOR
Chuck Lever
