.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2025 Oracle and/or its affiliates.
.\"
.\" ktls-utils is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; version 2.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA
.\" 02110-1301, USA.
.\"
.\" tls-session-tags(7)
.\"
.TH tls-session-tags 7 "28 Dec 2025"
.SH NAME
tls-session-tags \- TLS session tags
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/tlshd/tags.d/
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B tlshd
program implements a user agent that services TLS handshake requests
on behalf of kernel TLS consumers.
Its configuration files, found under the
.I /etc/tlshd
directory, contain information that the
.B tlshd
program reads when it starts up.
The configuration files direct the
.B tlshd
program to information about which trust store and signing
and encryption algorithms are to be used.
The configuration files are considered a trusted source of information.
.P
When a peer presents an X.509 certificate during a TLS handshake, the
.B tlshd
program is responsible for verifying that the certificate was
issued by a certificate authority that the receiver recognizes and
trusts.
Once that verification is successful, the receiver can trust
the content of that certificate, including information about
the peer identity presented in that certificate (e.g., a DNS hostname
or IP address, and so on).
.P
Once a peer's certificate is trusted,
the
.B tlshd
program can be configured to scan the fields in the peer's certificate.
Based on the scan,
the
.B tlshd
program can assign tags to the new TLS session that
indicate that the server recognizes the peer's identity.
For example,
the
.B tlshd
program can be configured to look for a specific string in
.I subject
fields, and assign tags to TLS sessions where the peer presented
a certificate with matching content in that field.
Kernel consumers can use those tags to authorize or deny access
to resources based on the identity presented in peer certificates.
.P
The following sections describe how to configure this facility.
.SH FORMAT
TLS session tag definitions are YAML documents stored in files in the
.I /etc/tlshd/tags.d
directory.
When it launches, the
.B tlshd
program reads all files in that directory with either the
.I .yml
or
.I .yaml
extension.
Modifications to the content of these files take effect only when the
.B tlshd
program is restarted.
.P
The
.B tlshd
program
populates two dictionaries from the contents of these files:
.TP
.B filters
Each filter defined in this dictionary specifies the name of a
field in an X.509 certificate, and the conditions under which the
contents of that field are to be considered a match.
.TP
.B tags
Each tag is a list of one or more filters (defined in the
.B filters
dictionary)
that all must be matched in order for the tag to be assigned to a
new TLS session.
.SS Filter types
A filter's
.I type
determines the part of the incoming authentication material that the
.B tlshd
program examines to determine if there is a match.
For example, for the
.I x509.tbs.subject
filter type, a string argument specifies a simple wildcard pattern
that is matched against an incoming X.509 certificate's subject field.
A complete list of filter types appears in the
.B FILTER TYPE REFERENCE
section below.

.SH FILTER TYPE REFERENCE
The
.B tlshd
program currently implements the following filter types:
.TP
.B x509.cert.signatureAlgorithm
Filters of this type examine an incoming X.509 certificate's
signatureAlgorithm field,
as defined in RFC 5280, Section 4.1.1.2.
The filter takes an additional string wildcard pattern that
can be an algorithm name or an algorithm OID.
.TP
.B x509.tbs.version
Filters of this type examine an incoming X.509 certificate's
version field,
part of the To-Be-Signed section of the certificate,
as defined in RFC 5280, Section 4.1.2.1.
The filter takes an additional numeric value that is matched
against the certificate's version.
.TP
.B x509.tbs.serialNumber
Filters of this type examine an incoming X.509 certificate's
serialNumber field,
part of the To-Be-Signed section of the certificate,
as defined in RFC 5280, Section 4.1.2.2.
The filter takes an additional string wildcard pattern that
matches a hexadecimal number.
.TP
.B x509.tbs.issuer
Filters of this type examine an incoming X.509 certificate's
issuer field,
part of the To-Be-Signed section of the certificate,
as defined in RFC 5280, Section 4.1.2.4.
The filter takes an additional string wildcard pattern that
matches the distinguished name part of the certificate's
issuer field.
.TP
.B x509.tbs.validity.notBefore
Filters of this type examine an incoming X.509 certificate's
activation time field,
part of the To-Be-Signed section of the certificate,
as defined in RFC 5280, Section 4.1.2.5.
The filter takes a date and time string.
The filter matches when the certificate's activation time
is equal to or later than the specified threshold.
Use this filter to accept only certificates issued on or
after a particular date.
.TP
.B x509.tbs.validity.notAfter
Filters of this type examine an incoming X.509 certificate's
expiration time field,
part of the To-Be-Signed section of the certificate,
as defined in RFC 5280, Section 4.1.2.5.
The filter takes a date and time string.
The filter matches when the certificate's expiration time
is equal to or earlier than the specified threshold.
Use this filter to accept only certificates that expire on
or before a particular date.
.TP
.B x509.tbs.subject
Filters of this type examine an incoming X.509 certificate's
subject field,
part of the To-Be-Signed section of the certificate,
as defined in RFC 5280, Section 4.1.2.6.
The filter takes an additional string wildcard pattern that
matches the distinguished name part of the certificate's
subject field.

.TP
.B x509.extension.keyUsage
Filters of this type examine an incoming X.509 certificate's
keyUsage field,
one of the standard certificate extensions.
The filter takes a list of bit names that must be set in the
field in order for the filter to match.
This list contains zero or more of the following bit names:
.IR digitalSignature ,
.IR nonRepudiation ,
.IR keyEncipherment ,
.IR dataEncipherment ,
.IR keyAgreement ,
.IR keyCertSign ,
.IR cRLSign ,
.IR encipherOnly ", or"
.IR decipherOnly .
.TP
.B x509.extension.extendedKeyUsage
Filters of this type examine an incoming X.509 certificate's
extendedKeyUsage field,
one of the standard certificate extensions.
This filter type is not yet implemented.
.TP
.B x509.derived.fingerprint
Filters of this type locally compute an incoming X.509 certificate's
SHA1 and SHA256 fingerprint.
The filter takes an additional string wildcard pattern that
matches the hexadecimal value of either the derived SHA1 or
derived SHA256 fingerprint.
.TP
.B x509.derived.selfSigned
Filters of this type match when an incoming X.509 certificate's
issuer and subject distinguished names are exactly equal.
.SH STANDARDS
.TP
.B X.509
RFC 5280, RFC 6125
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tlshd (8),
.BR tlshd.conf (5)
.SH AUTHOR
Chuck Lever
