.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2025 Oracle and/or its affiliates.
.\"
.\" ktls-utils is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; version 2.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA
.\" 02110-1301, USA.
.\"
.\" tls-session-tags(7)
.\"
.TH tls-session-tags 7 "5 Aug 2025"
.SH NAME
tls-session-tags \- TLS session tags
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/tlsd/tags.d
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B tlshd
program implements a user agent that services TLS handshake requests
on behalf of kernel TLS consumers.
Its configuration files, found under the
.I /etc/tlshd
directory, contain information that the
.B tlshd
program reads when it starts up.
The configuration files direct the
.B tlshd
program to information about which trust store and signing
and encryption algorithms are to be used.
The configuration files are considered a trusted source of information.
.P
When a remote presents an x.509 certificate during a TLS handshake, the
.B tlshd
program is responsible for verifying that the certificate was
issued by a certificate authority that the receiver recognizes and
trusts.
Once that verification is successful, the receiver can trust
the content of that certificate, including information about
the peer identity presented in that certificate (eg. a DNS hostname
or IP address, and so on).
.P
Once a peer's certificate is trusted,
the
.B tlshd
program can be configured to scan the fields in the peer's certificate.
Based on the scan,
the
.B tlshd
program can assign tags to the new TLS session that
indicate that the server recognizes the peer's identity.
For example,
the
.B tlshd
program can be configured to look for a specific string in
.I subject
fields, and assign tags to TLS sessions where the peer presented
a certificate with matching content in that field.
Kernel consumers can use those tags to authorize or deny access
to resources based on the identity presented in peer certificates.
.P
The following sections describe how to configure this facility.
.SH FORMAT
TLS session tag definitions are YAML documents stored in files under the
.I /etc/tlshd/tags.d
directory.
When it launches, the
.B tlshd
program reads all files in that directory with either the
.I .yml
or
.I .yaml
extension.
Thus changes made in these files take effect only when the
.B tlshd
program is restarted.
.P
The
.B tlshd
program
populates two dictionaries from the contents of these files:
.TP
.B filters
Each filter defined in this dictionary specifies the name of a
field in an x.509 certificate, and the conditions under which the
contents of that field are a "match".
.TP
.B tags
Each tag is a list of filters (defined in the
.B filters
dictionary)
that all must be matched in order for the tag to be assigned to a new
TLS session.
.SS Filters
The definition of a filter is small YAML dictionary (or mapping) that
specifies the name of the filter, the certificate field it scans, and
the condition that defines a "match". For example:

  monsters-university:
    field: "issuer"
    type: "wildcard"
    expression: "*,O=Monsters University,*"

This defines a filter named "monsters-university".
It uses a wildcard match to look for "O=Monsters Univerity" in
each certificate's "issuer" field.
The string value of the
.I field
key can be the name of any x.509 certificate field (though not
all fields are supported yet).
The string value of the
.I type
key is one of "exact", "wildcard", "regex", or "list".

When the value of
.I type
is "exact", "wildcard", or "regex",
the
.I expression
value is a string that is to be matched against.
When the value of
.I type
is "list", the
.I expression
value is a list of x.509 keyUsage bit names.
.SS Tags
The definition of a tag is a small YAML dictionary that specifies
the name of the tag and a list of filters (as defined in the Filters
mapping, above) that all must match for the tag to be assigned to
a TLS session. For example:

  ror-mu-chapter:
    filter:
      - "monsters-univerity"
      - "fraternity-ror"

This defines a tag named "ror-mu-chapter".
Both the "monsters-university" and "fraternity-ror" filters must
match in order for the
.B tlshd
program to assign this tag to an incoming TLS session.
.SS Handshake completion
Once a handshake is successful, the
.B tlshd
program scans the peer's certificate using the configured filter and
tag definitions.
Any tag matches are attached to the new TLS session and are made
visible to the kernel consumer that is to use the session.
Note that filter names are not exposed to kernel consumers.
.SH STANDARDS
x.509
.BR
RFC 5280
.BR
RFC 6125
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tlshd (8),
.BR tlshd.conf (5)
.SH AUTHOR
Chuck Lever
